Battery: level changed triggers (Lab feature) (#45480)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_triggers/battery.level_crossed.markdown

  trigger: battery.level_crossed
  target:
    label_id: critical_sensors
  options:
    threshold:
      type: above
      value:
        entity: input_number.battery_replacement_threshold
    behavior: first
{% endexample %}

This fires when the first sensor with the `critical_sensors` label crosses above the number helper's threshold value.

### Options in YAML

YAML sometimes provides additional options for more complex use cases that are not available through the UI.

{% options_yaml %}
threshold:
  description: |
    A mapping that defines the zone the reading must enter for the trigger to fire. Set `type` to one of:

    - `above` or `below`: provide `value` with a `number` key or an `entity` key.
    - `between` or `outside`: provide `value_min` and `value_max`, each with a `number` key or an `entity` key.

    For example:

    ```yaml
    threshold:
      type: below
      value:
        number: 20
    ```
  required: true
  type: map
behavior:
  description: |
    When multiple entities are targeted, controls when the trigger fires. Accepts:

    - `any`: fire every time any targeted entity crosses the threshold.
    - `first`: fire only on the first crossing.

>     - `last`: fire only after every targeted entity crosses the threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `any`: fires every time any targeted entity crosses the threshold.
    - `first`: fires only on the first crossing.
    - `last`: fires only after every targeted entity crosses the threshold.
```

  required: false
  type: string
  default: any
for:
  description: |
    How long the reading must remain past the threshold before the trigger fires. Accepts a duration string in `HH:MM:SS` format. For example, `00:30:00` fires only after the reading has stayed past the threshold for 30 minutes.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: "00:00:00"
{% endoptions_yaml %}

{% include triggers/targets.md %}

{% include triggers/behavior.md %}

## Good to know

- **Above** and **Below** fire on the crossing moment only. Once the reading is above the threshold, the trigger does not fire again until the reading dips back below it and then crosses above again.
- **In range** (`between`) fires when the reading moves from outside the bounds into the bounds. **Outside range** (`outside`) fires when the reading moves from inside the bounds past either bound.

> - Pair this trigger with [Battery level changed](/triggers/battery.level_changed/) if you also want to react to smaller fluctuations between crossings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pair this trigger with the [Battery level changed](/triggers/battery.level_changed/) trigger if you also want to react to smaller fluctuations between crossings.
```

> - Pair this trigger with [Battery level](/conditions/battery.is_level/) in follow-up conditions to double-check the final state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pair this trigger with the [Battery level](/conditions/battery.is_level/) condition to double-check the final state.
```
